{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia-Bold;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red127\green127\blue127;\red250\green248\blue241;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red42\green42\blue42;\red255\green255\blue255;\red33\green253\blue6;\red40\green85\blue127;\red61\green61\blue61;
\red234\green234\blue234;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c57046\c57047\c57046;\cssrgb\c98528\c97741\c95657;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99985;
\cssrgb\c21593\c21593\c21566;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99971;\cssrgb\c0\c97144\c0;\cssrgb\c19902\c41137\c57167;\cssrgb\c30741\c30741\c30741;
\cssrgb\c93333\c93333\c93333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99955;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13300\viewh16120\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \CocoaLigature0 Nearly done. Muhammad Ali caption can be slightly closer to his face. \
\
David Souter caption can be slightly lower so it doesn't cover Jesse Jackson's\
\
Output that.\
\
Then secondly, I\'92m also interested in making a version of this that I can cut into a triptych and put on instagram as a post\
\
I think the ratio of each piece would be 1080 x 1350. I can do the cutting myself but I want to have the right image to work from. \
\
Keep all this very high resolution for now, but what would it take to make this break into three pieces of exactly that aspect ratio side by side? (3240 x 1350 \'97\'a0is that close to the aspect ratio we have now?) \
\
If we were going to update  then could we have the full title  and the axis labels in the first (left-most) third, text not getting cut off?  That would mean shrinking the title slightly, losing the comma, and putting there 2000-26 on a second line underneath the title (and could be smaller font size)\
\
\
\
\
**\
\
Let\'92s wrap:\
John\
O\'92Connor\
4,242\
\
And then move it to the right a little bit so it is closer to his face\
\
Let\'92s wrap\
A.M.\
Rosenthal\
4,217\
\
And move it to the left so it is tighter to *his* face\
\
David Souter image is done and can be added. \
\
You\'92ll have to cheat Wilie Mays and caption to the left\
\
And for David Souter, put caption to his right and wrap it: \
David\
Souter\
4,033\
And align left against his face\
\
\
\
\
*****\
Closer and closer\
Lets wrap: \
Ruth Bader\
Ginsburg\
6,827\
\
You need to space out Hal Prince (move face and caption a little left), Robert Mugabe (move face and caption a little up), and Paul Volcker (move face and caption a little right (so they don\'92t overlap)\
\
Hank Aaron and caption need to move up a tiny bit so they don\'92t crowd Walter Mondoale\
\
Can you move Arthur Miller\'92s caption up and a little tighter to his face (e.g. a little left) so it is more easy to tell it is labeling him.\
\
Same for Antonin Scalia caption - can move it up an and tighter to his face. \
\
Willie Mays image is done, getting you the final couple images for our last pass.\
\
***\
Looking very good.\
Hal Prince caption is on his face - you can cheat his position up a bit to make room right there at the axis. \
\
That may mean wrapping the text for Mugabe so it isn\'92t too wide:\
Robert\
Mugabe\
4,157\
\
And we\'92ll have to figure out if he needs to heat a little up ward too in order to leave room for Paul Volcker (who we now have image file and can incorporate)  \
\
Hank Aaron\'92s caption is own Walter Mondale\'92s forehead, we should cheat his bust and caption up a bit. \
\
We are still having overlap w Gorbachev\'92s caption and Benefict\'92s head \'85 need to cheat Gobratchev upwards a bit.\
\
Need to cheat Sandra Day O\'92Connor *down* a bit (without overlapping Silvio Berlucsoni) so she doesn\'92t get under Queen Elizbaeth\'92s caption. \
\
***\
We have new illustrations you can work in now (Hal Prince, Walter Mondale, Robert Mugabe) and hopefully the last few will be done soon. \
\
Can you cheat Gorbachev up slightly so his caption doesn\'92t overlap with Benedict or Queen Elizabeth? \
\
And maybe wrap:\
\
Queen\
Elizabeth II\
6824\
\
\
And maybe you can cheat Francis to right just a bit so his caption doesn\'92t overlap with Queen Elizabeth?\
\
We have a bit of collection of the text for Abraham Bean and George F. Kennan, but I think if you put Abraham Bene underneath him now (you made space near the X axis) we should be good.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
***\
\
\
Add a comma after Obituaries in title and a hyphen between the years:\
\
Longest New York Times Obituaries, 2000-2026\
\
John O\'92Connor isn\'92t to the left of his face as we said it would be. \
\
For Byron R. White, can you wrap the name/wordcount so it is very narrow and will fit better under him (and drop middle initial):\
\
Byron\
White\
4,314\
\
That\'92s a trick we can use with some of there other long names where faces are cramped untliding McNamara, Qaddafi, Lindbergh\
\
Goerge Kennan needs to be under his bust, not to its left, and center aligned\
That might leave room for Ted Williams to be under his name, where either will be easier to identify it is for him. \
\
Qaddafi is still over his face\
\
Ariel Sharon sees to be under his bust not beside it\
\
\
\
\
\
***\
\
This is looking very good.  I like the overlook look\
\
Let\'92s see if we can spot-check some fixes.\
\
If you take off the heavy Y axis line, it will create a little space to the left of John O\'92Connor (note that we must drop Cardinal from his middle name) and you could put his name and bio to his Left, as an exception. When you put the name and word count to a person\'92s side, have it align right so it has a neat line up against the person\'92s face (in this case align-right).\
\
If you cheat Abraham Beame down a little bit, and move his name and wordcount to his right side (and align-left the text). \
\
That will hopefully give you space for Anne Morrow Lindbergh above him.\
\
You might need to cheat Burton R White up a tiny bit to give his caption space\
\
Ted Williams caption is occurring fully on his face right nowm ,we need to fix.\
\
Arthur Miller could be to his right side (Text align left) so it doesn\'92t overlap with George Kennan.\
\
And George Kennan captious is full on his face now, needs to be fixed. \
\
And A.M. Rosenthal could be to his right side (text aligned left) so it doesn\'92t conflict with John Kenneth Galbraith.\
\
And Galbraith\'92s caption is somethwat on his face now. Put it to his right side because hte\'92s so low and close to the X axis it won\'92t fit under his face. The same will eventually be true with Hal Prince, Paul Volcker, and David Souter. \
\
Ariel Sharon is fully on his face, needs a fix. Same with Scalia. \
\
Solzhenitsyn\'92s name is overlapping a tiny bit with Saddam Hussein, maybe we can just cheat both of them slightly away from each other to ae space? \
\
Yasir Arafat caption a little on top of Marlon Brando, any way to cheat Yasir up just slightly? \
\
Once I see how you deal with these, I will deal with the traffic jam in the upper right of the chart. \
\
\
****\
\
\
For names and wordounts throughout, let\'92s use a slightly more fun font. Either Georgia (which is what NYT uses) or something a little more infographic-y, a little less office-style.\
\
For the X and Y axes, let\'92s bump up the size of the numbers and make the axis label itself in bold and bigger.\
\
For title of chart, let\'92s go with:\
\
Longest New York Time Obituaries 2000-2026\
\
All the names/wordcounts should be center aligned and ticket in closer to the image they correspond to. I think for some of these there is a bit of empty space in the image itself which you may not be figuring in (for example under Margaret Thatcher, Antonin Scalia, John Paul Stevens, Saddam Hussein, George Kennan, Ted Williams, Qaddafi, Ariel Saron, Mario Cuomo\'85 - those you can actually bring the label up onto the image itself so it is in the clear space. \
\
The font size is good and readable until we get to the names under 6,000 words, then it gets pretty small. I think those should stay a big larger all the way down to the bottom, otherwise they will cease to be legible. \
\
We\'92ll eventually need to spot-check and deal with some traffic jams of faces and names but I think we can do that at the end when we have everything else looking good, and we can customize it to the problem\'85we may end up \'93cheating\'94 people\'94 a little bit from where they officially sit on the axis if it makes a tiny bit of room.\
\
And at the bottom right of the whole thing, put a small note:\
\
Source: NYT Archive API \'95 https://tedalcorn.github.io/nyt\
\
\
\
\
Small things: on mobile, the table for corrections is too wide. Let\'92s lose section and reporter columns and just have date, article, correction (which is oK to wrap). Ensure it fits on mobile width screen\
\
When I download JPG of \'93Gender Split over time\'94 it gets two legend entries, it only needs one (and the render of these and other JPGs of this size looks really low\'85 can we increase the resolution a good bit so they are sharper throughout?)\
\
And we need to put the corrections material onto your about page, under obituaries. What would you propose for that, so I can edit it? Short paragraphs, not bullets or headings, like we used for obituaries.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
GO ahead with all of the plans that you indicate here (the orchestrator for adding new data, the phase 3 thing and I don\'92t feel strongly about Spacy. And yes show all results in the viewer to me).\
\
As for the dashboard, I think COrrections is actually ready to push live to Github now, and to add a tab to the navigation after obituaries. \
\
Make sure the JPG download button is for the visualization (and has the appropriate title information and legend), not down at the bottom of the table where it is currently. \
\
Can you move the all / matched / unmatched buttons align-right rather than left? \
\
Get rid of this little blurb beneath the visualization, for example the: 
\f1 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 Per 100 published articles, by year. Add sections or reporters above to compare. (Current year omitted.)
\f0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
First some tiny things:\
\
THsis a not forgotten for Dorothy Parker\
\
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives/dorothy-parker\
\
Name here is 
\f1\fs40 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 Yousra Abdel Raouf al-Kidwa: https://www.nytimes.com/2003/08/14/world/arafat-s-sister-77-dies-in-a-cairo-hospital.html\

\f0\fs22 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Name here is simply: 
\f1\fs40 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 Leonard L. Farber: https://www.nytimes.com/2005/08/08/business/leonard-l-farber-shopping-mall-executive-dies-at-89.html\

\f0\fs22 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
Not an obit: https://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/17/obituaries/stapleton-memorial.html\
\
I don\'92t see the charts for obituaries resizing as I shrink width of desktop page like I was fold would happen? \
\
\
Now to the corrections visualizer:\
\
Leave 2026 data off as it is incomplete and suggests a downward trend that isn\'92t real\
\
Instead of having search tools for the visualizer and then anther set below it for the table, think we should combine their functionality, put it all at the top of the visualizer, and have that automatically filter the table below it at the same time (rather than ask a user to click a special button to coordinate them). I mostly like the way you already allow filtering on the visualizer. \
\
The only thing to add up there would be a box for typing in a bar \'93Filter by text, section, or reporter\'85\'94.\
\
And maybe the items would be \
\
[Filter by text, section or reporter] \
Filter by section: [+add]\
Filter by reporter: [+add]\
\
Since the shift \'93count / Per 100 articles\'94 isn\'92t a filter so much as a toggle of the visualization, it can be in the upper right corner away from all the search parts.\
\
Its strange to be able to click on the legend items themselves and see them struck out and disappear from the visualization, In fact I think it\'92s strange to add them to the chart legend since they are already appearing above it alongside Reporters: where they are color-coded and can be eliminated with a click. \
\
Then we ought to be able to remove the Filter table to selection button. \
\
\
It\'92s fascinating to compare sections per 100 articles and see obits so much higher than others - I bet readers really write in to ensure those are correct!\
\
\
And then down by the table keep the all/matched/unmatched toggles and the # matching figure, but perhaps a little more diminutive as it\'92s just for my diagnostic use and eventually we we will remove. \
\
\
As to your questions: yes, begin  special subprocess for matching corrections based on the proper names in the text you have and the data, using the info on the API to make a high confidence match, and then running those by me for approval. And yes, begin with the high DOW diff corrections too. \
\
And remind me what our expectation is about the next batch of corrections to scrape pre-2017?\
\
We\'92re ultimately gong to need to prepare for what happens when we get to May and we get the full April API data. That will mean integrating it across the whole dashboard, and subprocesses for obituaries, and then a process for flagging any errors that emerge. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
A couple more small fixes on obits: \
\
this isn\'92t an obit\
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/02/reader-center/obituary-suggestions-overlooked.html\
\
Name didn\'92t get parsed correctly, it it Charlotte Bass: https://www.nytimes.com/2020/09/04/obituaries/charlotta-bass-vice-president-overlooked.html\
\
Can you check in the API data what the word count is given for this article by Robert McFadden: https://www.nytimes.com/2005/04/04/world/europe/obituary-karol-wojtyla-19202005.html\
It\'92s 10 pages long and I think the wourcount is huge\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
I\'92m exploring the corrections we\'92ve scraped. \
\
It appears that in nearly every correction they list the day of week the article appeared (in print, most likely, which will differ from online). It would be good to pull that day of week out during our build, from which we could then calculate a likely date (it would be the most recent prior instance of that day of week), and compare that to the date of the article we\'92ve linked to, and see whether / how well it works as a spot check.\
\
If we have the full text of each individual correction (not the full page digest), it would also be good to calculate our own word-count of that, just in case it makes it easier to spot outliers (too low or very high). \
\
I see only a small share unmatched to article, which is good. I would really like to devise an automated way for us to match those, rather than me to do it manually. Most of them will have a proper noun in them \'97\'a0a full name of a person, a specific geography. I would think that in MANY but not all cases, that along with the date or month the article appeared (we\'92ll have the day of week) would be enough to find a likely candidate for the article, in the NYT? Can you see about creating a subprocess for filling in those gaps? \
\
And with nearly 10 years of corrections in I do think some small visualizations would be helpful. \
\
We\'92d want to see the volume of corrections over time, whether at the overall paper or a section or a reporter. \
\
And within that have both the absolute number and a denominator of the number per 100 articles \'97\'a0so if we\'92re looking by section, articles by section by year; if we\'92re looking at reporters, articles by reporter by year. \
\
I think this all should live in the corrections tab for now, not shifting back to the reporters or sections tabs.  And I think clicking on the section name or the reporter name would bring you into that viewer, with that section or reporter input. \
\
And then we\'92d want to investigate why corrections fell in 2024/5, if we are failing to scrape an area of the paper we had used for the earlier years?\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 ***\
\
\
\
\
\
I agree the drop in corrections in 2024-24 is troubling and we probably need to see what happened.\
Let\'92s add a tiny tag for this subcategories if you are seeing them regularly over time, we can just track that and incorporate or not into our visible table.\
\
I went through the obits that continued to have unparsed gender and made a spreadsheet adding that, adding corrections to age or names (prefaced \'93Correction:\'94, and a couple of notes of non obits in column A). Can you put those in and then assuming there are no more gender unparsed, can you remove that as a search category? \
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5  are corrections almost done? If so, i hope we can load them into the web (applying all the lessons       \cb1 \
\cb5   learned with the 2025 corrections we began with so they go in as neatly as possible) and then I'd liek   \cb1 \
\cb5   to begin manually reviewing them and catching bugs in our process. one thing in advnace will be to       \cb1 \
\cb5   ensure that by sweeping in corrections from all places possible we foun them that we don't have          \cb1 \
\cb5   duplicates, maybe something as simple as looking for corrections attributed to the same article title?   \cb1 \
\cb5   I'll want to be able to visualize the flow of corrections over time to eyeball if there are major        \cb1 \
\cb5   anomalies by year, section, etc - i don't mean adding that to the dashboard just yet, just for our       \cb1 \
\cb5   internal checks. only when we have a fairly complete set going back overa longer period will i want to   \cb1 \
\cb5   start figuring out how to compare the rates of corrections/100 words/author and /section. looking at the \cb1 \
\cb5    form of the correction text i am considering whether we should add a checkbox for photo captio, editing \cb1 \
\cb5    error, those seem to be offered regularly as little subcategories that might be interesting to pull     \cb1 \
\cb5   out. i also want to understand how efficient this scraping process was, how many years we covered, and   \cb1 \
\cb5   what that says about how far to go to extend this all the way back to 2000 knowing what we do abvout how \cb1 \
\cb5    corrections notices have chanvged over that time. On the obits: Byron White still doesn't bring him up  \cb1 \
\cb5   in search, we ned the search to work without having to be in exact form of original name. And are we     \cb1 \
\cb5   privleging the longest obit wordcount THROUGHOUT the entire dataset now, for everyone? Byron White was   \cb1 \
\cb5   4000+ words before I thought but now is under it. Pope John Paul II is only 698 words, we had him over   \cb1 \
\cb5   10,000 before (surely from API data?) I see two entries for R.W. Apple, one included a Jr. which is the  \cb1 \
\cb5   confusion. I still see a few people with Dr. at front of name, didn't I ask you to add a way to identify \cb1 \
\cb5    and remove those, as well as Rev. so we are being consistent? Hugo Chavez didn't parse his name because \cb1 \
\cb5    it wasn't in headline, I guess: https://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/06/world/americas/hugo-chavez-venezuela \cb1 \
\cb5   s-polarizing-leader-dies-at-58.html Helen Keller didn't scrape in properly:                              \cb1 \
\cb5   https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/06/01/obituaries/document-Helenkeller.html And you didn't       \cb1 \
\cb5   explain whay we lack wordocunt for a bunch of republished and overlooked no more This isn't an obit:     \cb1 \
\cb5   https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/12/obituaries/my-moments-with-stan.html Looks like we are using a stub   \cb1 \
\cb5   instead of this for Althea: https://www.nytimes.com/2003/09/28/obituaries/althea-gibson-first-black-wimb \cb1 \
\cb5   ledon-champion-dies-at-76.html This isn't an obit:                                                       \cb1 \
\cb5   https://www.nytimes.com/2005/01/28/obituaries/a-tribute-for-robert-heilbroner.html And you didn't        \cb1 \
\cb5   expalin whether you created a way of doublechecking obits for too few words or too many, as I asked in   \cb1 \
\cb5   my last instructions. just to spotcheck                                                                  \cb1 \
                                           \
\
A few small fixes.\
Ronald Reagan obituary doesn\'92t parse his name correctly: https://www.nytimes.com/2004/06/06/us/ronald-reagan-dies-at-93-fostered-cold-war-might-and-curbs-on-government.html\
\
Misses first name 
\f1\fs40 \cb6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 Aleksandr
\f0\fs22 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 : https://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/04/books/04solzhenitsyn.html\
\
Mistakenly retained title in name: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/16/us/john-paul-stevens-dead.html\
\
This is not an obit, I don\'92t think - letter of remembrances for R.W. Apple: https://www.nytimes.com/2006/10/04/obituaries/apple-remember.html\
\
Missed first name Henri: https://www.nytimes.com/2004/08/05/arts/cartier-bresson-artist-who-used-lens-dies-at-95.html\
\
Took title instead of name: https://www.nytimes.com/2003/03/26/obituaries/former-senator-daniel-patrick-moynihan-dead-at-76.html\
\
Kept the word violinist in name: https://www.nytimes.com/2001/09/23/nyregion/violinist-isaac-stern-dies-at-81-led-efforts-to-save-carnegie-hall.html\
\
Name is (unparsed) should be Art Buchwald: https://www.nytimes.com/2007/01/19/obituaries/19buchwald.html\
\
\
Can you fix these but also learn from them and apply it to ensure other names haven\'92t gotten similarly mistaken?\
\
E.g. check all names to see if others are listed as (unparsed). And if we are stripping titles (which we seem to be), we should do a search for names beginning Rev., Dr. and move that info to wherever you store titles but not display. Should also search for names that have unusually large numbers of words or unusually few and then spot-check them \'97 a bunch of cultural figures go by one name and that\'92s one (Pele, etc) but we might find some problems.\
\
I also see we lack any word count for maybe 50-100 of the obits including a bunch of republished ones \'97\'a0looks like big groups in 2006, 2016, and 2019. Some of them appear to be a part of the Overlooked No More group and I think you need to do a better job reviewing all the URLs of the obit to flag any that should be in there, like this one (overlooked is in the slug): \
\
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/obituaries/margaret-garner-overlooked.html\
\
I can\'92t find the Qaddafi obit in the list by his name, can you figure out why? https://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/21/world/africa/qaddafi-killed-as-hometown-falls-to-libyan-rebels.html\
\
And Marlon Brando needs word count, why is it missing ow? \
\
\
\
\
Don\'92t add non-binary to the \'93Gender split over time\'94 chart \'97\'a0it\'92s too small to be meaningful there, and running at basically 0 it just distracts. \
\
Can you confirm we don\'92t need to combine the geographic categories of Republic of Congo (clips 2000-10), Congo, Republic of (Congo-Brazzaville) (Clips 2010-2023)? And Democratic Republic of Congo has clips throughout the time period. I always forget which of thees are distinct places. \
\
In the corrections you\'92ve scraped thus far, there are a bunch you didn\'92t get the date for. Can you troubleshoot that? It\'92s obvious from their source so I don\'92t know why missed. And let\'92s clarify the column title that is the Date published (not the date of the original article). \cb7 I also have manually gone and found links to the unmatched articles and will upload those to you.\cb1 \
\
And in the language up top, note that this will ultimately be every correction 2000-2025, *not going back all the way to 1944!!!\
\
And I pulled out the 150 or so obits we hadn\'92t parsed gender for and was going through them adding that, occasionally adding age if it was missing, or adding a correction (marked Correction:) to name. You can see my notes in the first column when some entries were not obits, or need to be tagged to a series, or need to be linked to two people. \
\
But I got tired of adding gender to the remaining ones and I have to ask: can\'92t we see some of their text in the API? I am just shocked there isn\'92t a way to infer their gender from what we\'92ve got there. Can you show me the complete entry for a couple of them so we can troubleshoot? Otherwise I will do the rest manually but I\'92d like to know for sure its the only way.\
\
\
\
****\
\
\
Leave reporters as is, that\'92s fine.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 On the about page, the item entitled \'93
\f2\b\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 Pre-2007 \'97 short-item indexing\'94
\f0\b0\fs22 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0  needs a little rewrite to make coherent the title focused on 2007 and the examples from many sections which extend far after 2007:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 2007 - Short-item indexing.
\f1\b0 \cb6 \'a0Particularly prior to 2007 but in some cases after, the API indexed short-form items (letters to the editor, Metro briefs, calendar listings, bulleted business news), then abruptly stopped. During earlier eras, many sections had a large share of 0\'96400 word articles (Business 2000\'962010:  47-62%; New York 2000\'962006: ~45%; Magazine 2000\'962003: 45\'9651%; Theater 2007\'962010: 38-47%; Education 2010\'962016: 58\'9666%); Automobiles 2007\'962012: 39\'9654%: Your Money 2010\'962013: 37\'9653%). Median article word count jumps from about 550 to 660 words at the January 2007 breakpoint, consistent with many short items being dropped from the index after that point\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
And I\'92m looking at the corrections data we have right now and have some thoughts.\
\
My process is to first get a layout for this page that allows me to understand the year of data we\'92ve incorporated, to find holes as we add more, and ultimately to have a good landing pad for then scraping and integrating all the corrections we can find. Before we make this page public we would want (a) to feel we had located all the corrections in the paper that we can (b) linked them to their original article at a very comprehensive rate, so that any inferences we make about the number per section or editor is not a distortion.\
\
First off, let\'92s get rid of the boxes with headline num bars, no need to draw attention to those just yet. \
\
Let\'92s change the subtitle:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf2 \cb6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 Every correction the Times printed in [Period], linked to the underlying article. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Any comparisons we make between reporters or sections would ultimately need to take into account the volume of stories they issue. Computing a rate of \'93corrections/100 articles\'94 or some-such, but let\'92s get a full set of data before we do that. \
\
The table of the corrections takes up some vertical space due to showing first characters of the correction, which I think is OK because these are relatively rare, but can you make the reporter(s) column narrower (allowing those to wrap if there are many authors) in order to give the Correction column a bit more width, so we can possibly offer a few more characters? I\'92m struggling to think of a better word than \'93View\'94 for the Article column, perhaps it is the article title as a hyperlink to the article? And can we vertically-align all the entries in these rows with the top of the cell, rather than its center?  We might as well also put the format for date in the more readable ##/##/#### that we have used elsewhere for example in the Obituary tab. \
\
Can we also make the table sortable on date and section columns? No need for reporter, article, correction as those won\'92t make sense to order that way. \
\
Let\'92s remove the note at bottom that reads \'93
\f1 \cb6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 Methodology in\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tedalcorn.github.io/nyt/#"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc8 About 
\f3 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  Draft sections}}.\'94 
\f0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
\
It\'92s interesting you weren\'92t able to connect some of the corrections, and I wonder why not. Note that you are not correctly gleaning the section in these cases, either \'97\'a0you are listing a little fragment of html. \
\
This one (
\f1\fs40 \cb6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 An\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2025/12/19/us/uva-president-scott-beardsley.html"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc9 article}}\'a0on Tuesday about Scott C. Beardsley being appointed president at the University of Virginia misstated the total number of students at the university. It has more than 26,000 students, not more than 40,000) has a hyperlink in it for the word \'93article\'94 which links to the original: (https://www.nytimes.com/2025/12/19/us/uva-president-scott-beardsley.html)\
\
This one (An\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2025/08/24/us/new-england-boaters-protest-buoys-removal.html"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc9 article}}\'a0on Monday about the Coast Guard\'92s removal of buoys along the Northeast misspelled the given name of the Pilgrim leader who nearly hit the Mary Ann Rocks in December 1620. He was Myles Standish, not Miles.) is the same, links on that word to here (https://www.nytimes.com/2025/08/24/us/new-england-boaters-protest-buoys-removal.html)
\f0\fs22 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
\
Another: (
\f1\fs40 \cb6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 An\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2025/10/25/arts/television/june-lockhart-dead.html"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc9 obituary}}\'a0on Monday about the actress June Lockhart misstated the name of one of her daughters. She is June Elizabeth Lockhart-Triolo, not June Elizabeth Trola.) links on the word \'93obituary\'94 to here: https://www.nytimes.com/2025/10/25/arts/television/june-lockhart-dead.html\
\

\f0\fs22 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
I\'92m also noticing at least one duplicate correction, we should identify and merge those. \
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trcbpat11 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4619\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf10 \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt120 \clpadl240 \clpadb120 \clpadr240 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3204\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf10 \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt120 \clpadl240 \clpadb120 \clpadr240 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9536\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf10 \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt120 \clpadl240 \clpadb120 \clpadr240 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 2025-06-10\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Health\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Ted Alcorn, Alessandro Falco\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
In this case it is because the same article appeared online and in print at very different times, which is unusual. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 https://www.nytimes.com/2025/06/12/pageoneplus/corrections-june-13-2025.html\
https://www.nytimes.com/2025/06/23/pageoneplus/corrections-june-21-2025.html\
\
I think the best way to preserve the secondary reference would be to add it in a parenthetical after the correction text, hyperlinked (Additional notification)  \'97\'a0is that feasible to append in that column after the ellipsis, or will that complicate things? \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\
\
***\
\
This is a NOT FORGOTTEN column for Bruce Lee and the name and profession are reversed: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives/bruce-lee\
\
It seems like maybe these columns have been ingested and the tell is that the name is in the wrong place. Could you do a search for any obits with /interactive/projects in their URL, if that is the tell, to see if we have any others hidden in here, and then double-check name placement is correct?\
\
***\
\
The Age at death histogram click is working well but the histogram needs to go down small enough to encompass our youngest deaths (10-20). \
\
And the final bucket needs to be 110+ (if that is the largest displayed?) so it includes the turtle Gramma which is the outlier at 141 (!)\
\
And to \'93clear\'94 it let\'92s use the same format we have under the word count per article histogram in the reporter op-up \'97 a link that comes up that says \'93show all\'94 \
\
\
Still no entry at top of Coverage by Section table that is for \'93All sections\'94 \'97\'a0as you  may recalL I wanted that to be an option, and not to have it sort in with the other sections when a person sorts by a column. (Why have you consistently overlooked that request?)\
\
I\'92m curious \'97\'a0we removed the CORRECTIONS from the Nav but left the site live, right, or no? I can\'92t seem to access it here (https://tedalcorn.github.io/nyt/#tab=corrections) but is it somewhere else? \
\
***\
\
\
I had one idea \'97\'a0to better visually separate the obituaries that were one of our special features in the table listing all of them, w
\f4\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 e could for example use a different color font for the republished (a lighter grey); a maybe a purpose for overlooked, and maybe a light red for 9/11 portraits of grief? \

\f0\fs22 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\CocoaLigature1 Surprised only 74 \'93republished\'94 - are we missing some? \'a0We seem to have 2 Judy Garlands. Shouldn\'92t we have a system for detecting duplicates like that other than me going thru manually? \
\
And two kupfermans\'a0\'97\'a0a middle initial was added between republication of the obit, which is why you probably didn\'92t catch it.\
\
The rollover titles on histogram bars in the Age at Death chart need to indicate the age band, right now they do not\'a0\
\
Change dropdown to male / female (not \'93male only / female only\'94) and we\'92ll need a Non-binary option for the X person or people\
\
This is not an obit, it\'92s a group of them: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives/truman-capote\
\
This is dead link: https://static01.nyt.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives/david-petraeus\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
****\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs24 \cf2 \CocoaLigature1 \
You got cut off and have some work to complete. And then when you\'92re done with that I have some further notes:\
\
I\'92m in the OBITUARY Section and looks we have a triplicate entry of an obit and duplicate of three others (likely republished on subsequent dates w  new URL?)  \'97 might a similar error exist among other clips, and we should check closer for it? \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \cb12 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2006-05-11{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2006/05/11/nyregion/11rosenthal.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 A. M. Rosenthal, Editor of The Times, Dies at 84}}\'a0\'b7 Robert D. McFadden\'a0\'b7 4,215 words
\fs26 \

\fs22 2006-05-11{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2006/05/11/nyregion/a-m-rosenthal-editor-of-the-times-dies-at-84.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 A. M. Rosenthal, Editor of The Times, Dies at 84}}\'a0\'b7 Robert D. McFadden\'a0\'b7 4,194 words
\fs26 \

\fs22 2006-05-10{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2006/05/10/nyregion/11rosenthalcnd.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 A. M. Rosenthal Is Dead at 84; Innovative Editor of The Times\'a0}}\'b7 Robert D. McFadden\'a0\'b7 4,217 words
\fs26 \

\fs22 \
2005-09-05{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2005/09/05/politics/politicsspecial1/william-h-rehnquist-architect-of-conservative.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 William H. Rehnquist, Architect of Conservative Court, Dies at 80}}\'a0\'b7 Linda Greenhouse\'a0\'b7 6,635 words
\fs26 \

\fs22 2005-09-04{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2005/09/04/politics/william-h-rehnquist-chief-justice-of-supreme-court-is-dead-at-80.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of Supreme Court, Is Dead at 80}}\'a0\'b7 Linda Greenhouse\'a0\'b7 6,270 words
\fs26 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs24 \cf2 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \cb12 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2004-11-12{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2004/11/12/obituaries/world/yasir-arafat-palestinian-leader-and-mideast-provocateur-is.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 Yasir Arafat, Palestinian Leader and Mideast Provocateur, Is Dead at 75}}\'a0\'b7 Judith Miller\'a0\'b7 5,588 words
\fs26 \

\fs22 2004-11-11{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2004/11/11/world/middleeast/yasir-arafat-father-and-leader-of-palestinian-nationalism.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 Yasir Arafat, Father and Leader of Palestinian Nationalism, Dies at 75}}\'a0\'b7 Judith Miller\'a0\'b7 5,520 words
\fs26 \

\fs22 \
2004-07-03{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2004/07/03/arts/marlon-brando-screen-giant-of-electric-intensity-dies-at-80.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 Marlon Brando, Screen Giant Of Electric Intensity, Dies at 80}}\'a0\'b7 Rick Lyman\'a0\'b7 5,041 words
\fs26 \

\fs22 2004-07-02{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nytimes.com/2004/07/02/movies/marlon-brando-oscarwinning-actor-is-dead-at-80.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 Marlon Brando, Oscar-Winning Actor, Is Dead at 80}}\'a0\'b7 Rick Lyman\'a0\'b7 4,556 words
\fs26 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs24 \cf2 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
I\'92m also noticing that in the display name, we seem to have in some cases lost apostrophes  Sandra Day OConnor (no apostrophe between O\'92Connor); Christy OConnor Sr. etcetera - is that something we inadvertently introduced or comes from API? And there\'92s one named CARDINAL O\'92CONNOR (all caps shouldn\'92t be in ) whose real name is Cardinal John 
\f1\fs40 \cb12 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
O'Connor.
\f4\fs24 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Also, I made a list of all the people who had \'93gender not parsed\'94 and began filling it in manually where possible, attaching it as an .xls file. \
\
I added a column (the first) which in some cases flags entries that aren\'92t obits for a single person (we should remove) or that identifies obits that should be linked to two entries (which you created functionality to do). \
\
And then in the Gender column I added M, F, or X where I found it. (Note that will be the first X in our obits but maybe not the last - should see if any of the other entries in the API that we have access to include the word Mx. which is the title for a non-binary person.\
\
And then I made some corrections in other fields for names, roles, and in one case age, and whenever I did I began it with the word Correction: so do a search in the table for that and then figure out what I changed. \
\
\
\
****\
\
\
At end of carousel, can we have the rightward arrow return it to the first entry? (Right now it just goes dead)\
\
Were there really 0 articles about Greenland in 2025? I think there might have been more, actually \'97 they are subsumed in Denmark, maybe, or something? It\'92s a big geography and will draw attention.\
\
Also, we need to deal with Antarctica which had articles but no population \'97 let\'92s make it grey like the US, rollover can be what it is now.\
\
Can we make the obituary histogram by age at death clickable (like we did the histogram of article lengths) to limit the people listed below in the table to just those in that age band (of both genders)? Only if this is easy to do (and with click anywhere in that column, to allow easily for columns w few entries).\
\
We need to ensure he JPG downloads for the charts in obituaries include the title and legend, like the other chart downloads you have produced on this site. Do you need me to spell out how to do that or can you handle? \
\
\
\
***\
\
\
Last things before I eat dinner: Can you diagnose the 342 where gender is not parsed? \
\
First, in names I am seeing a bunch now just showing one name.\
\
Kind Abdullah (should have honorific, right?)\
\
https://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/23/world/middleeast/king-abdullah-who-nudged-saudi-arabia-forward-dies-at-90.html\
\
Lord Aberconway https://www.nytimes.com/2003/02/08/world/lord-aberconway-89-met-with-goring-secretly-in-39.html\
\
\
I\'92m looking at them and it seems straightforward to check the pronouns. If that is what you are relying on, and in these 342 cases there are not enough, or some confusion about them, I\'92d like to surface what that is so we can refine and you can correctly categorize them, but I don\'92t know in what part od your adjudication process each of these is getting hung up. They pretty reliably have a sentence (He was ## or She was ### indicating their age \'97\'a0not always) but that wuld seem pretty definitive. \
\
And this is Aaron Wartz (Internet Activist is his profession): https://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/13/technology/aaron-swartz-internet-activist-dies-at-26.html\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Taro Akebono  is given as Akebono only: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/10/world/asia/akebono-taro-sumo-dead.html\
\
There are a couple other obits for two people, very rare but as I find them we can add them to the Braidwood exception. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
***\
\
Great fixes. Yes, update the world tab table view as you did the carousel version, only there leave the /yr and /year as that viewer allows for data viewed in multiple years\
\
\
This is an obit for two people, not named 2 archaeologists \'97\'a0in this unusual case I think we should amen two entries one for each person, and have them link tot he same URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/17/us/2-archaeologists-robert-braidwood-95-and-his-wife-linda-braidwood-93-die.html\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Robert J. Braidwood, age 95\
His wife Linda S. Braidwood age 93 died several hours later\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
***\
\
If we don\'92t clean up the names, a user can\'92t sort by last name accurately.I don\'92t understand why you would need to reparse the obits to do this \'97\'a0we can\'92t work from the info we\'92ve already pulled out, just cleaning it up? \
\
Would it be easier to list them by Full name all as a single field (while retaining the items separately we\'92ve already sparateted) and it could include titles honorifics and suffixes \'97\'a0basically the whole usable thing \'97\'a0and rely on people to do a search to find anyone they are hunting for? If so, could we potentially do that? (So Sister Andre would display as such)?\
\
\
\
How do you know the other potratirs of grief aren\'92t\'92 surface able? Is that just a theory because you can\'92t easily find them? \
\
Did you do the search for names where first and last were identical, and then pursue a fix for any that were inaccurately rendered that way? I can\'92t recall your reporting back. \
\
I\'92m just noticing on the carousel chart A global paper, albeit with blind spots, the US should be grey (and rollover can say National Coverage) and then all the countries that are tan should remain that color but rollover and entry should not be \'93No data\'94 but rather should be \'930 articles tagged\'94 (which should be leftmost in the legend)\
\
The other legend entires can be simplified to <0.2/M residents (we don\'92t need \'94/yr\'94 for any of them because we already indicate this is in 2025). \
\
And for all the rollovers of the countries, we can drop \'93/year\'94 for the same reason. \
\
\
\
Keep Sophia, I didn\'92t mean to call it a feature\
Push to Github\
Send Task #40 explanation first.\
THen:\
\
When I click portraits of grief I am getting 385 returned \'97\'a0but aren\'92t there more than that? With so many victims of 9/11, I\'92m sort of thinking the NYT would have likely done one for everyone? \
\
Since you haven\'92t pushed the latest and rebuilt obits I may be seeing errors that no longer exist but:\
\
Aaliyah listed 3x due to your including her Not Forgotten entries rather than as Addl. URL(s)\
https://www.nytimes.com/2001/08/27/arts/aaliyah-22-singer-who-first-hit-the-charts-at-14.html\
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives/aaliyah\
https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/06/arts/music/aaliyah-dead.html\
\
Couple of unusual ones:\
\
Uriah Jones and 2nd is suffix (not last name)\
\
https://www.nytimes.com/2000/07/04/sports/uriah-jones-2nd-75-a-pioneer-for-black-fencers-in-the-us.html\
\
Joseph F. Cullman and 3rd is suffix not last name https://www.nytimes.com/2004/05/01/business/joseph-f-cullman-3rd-who-made-philip-morris-a-tobacco-power-dies-at-92.html\
\
And I had an offline (/btw) conversation with you and on my prompt it said\'a0the following \'97\'a0please internalize this as you are doing unnecessary builds too frequently and it wastes a ton of time and tokens for me: \
\
build_data.py is computationally heavy. It iterates through all 315 monthly raw API dumps (2000-01 through 2026-03), rebuilds\
    author records for ~27,000 authors with annual_words/monthly_counts/wc_hist for each, recomputes section trends, world coverage, beats, dashboard     \
    aggregates, and writes ~30MB authors.json plus dashboard.json plus per-year tracker files. A full run takes several minutes.                      \
                                                                                                                                                           \
    Going forward, the workflow should avoid full rebuilds unless data actually needs to change. Specifically:                                             \
                                                                                                                                                           \
    - For UI-only changes (CSS, HTML restructuring, JS table render): no rebuild needed \'97 those edit index.html directly.                                  \
    - For obituary fixes (build_obituaries.py edits): only run build_obituaries.py, which is much lighter \'97 it reads raw dumps but only writes             \
    obituaries.json. No need to touch build_data.py.                                                                                                       \
    - For photo grid stats (words=0 issue): the right diagnostic is to inspect why the existing writer produced zeros, not to rebuild. If it's a 10-line   \
    writer reading from already-correct authors.json, the fix is targeted \'97 possibly a small standalone script that re-reads authors.json and rewrites just\
     photo_grid_stats.json, no full rebuild.\
    - For author wordcount data: don't touch unless raw data changed. The numbers in authors.json are correct.                                             \
                                                                                                                                                           \
    A good rule for the main agent: only rerun build_data.py when raw API dumps change or when you've intentionally edited the data-building logic. A bug  \
    in a single output file doesn't justify a full rebuild \'97 write a small script that regenerates just that file from already-built artifacts.\
\
\
\
****\
\
\
\
I interrupted you because i think you were egetting lost doing something with author wordcount. don't. we aren't recomputing it, youa re just making sure the rollover of the grid\
  of reporters at the front serves up their wordcount in 2025 reliably. can you do that? I worry you were doing something really weird with wordcount, can you confirm you didn\'92t add any unnecessary code because you got lost? \
\
And then I need a recap of if you completed everything else I asked, which I will repaste below:\
***\
\
Something got screwed up in the grid of reporters at the top again, their rollovers no longer list words. Why is that happening? I\'92d rather not have to notice and re-correct that multiple times. \
\
You did something slightly weird with he articles and words per month chart that you embedded int he about page, its generally good but you can have the text wrap around it a bit closer and not have the chart float when the screen scrolls (because at mid-range widths of the browser window, its compressing the text in that section to a very narrow space, creating weird dynamics). Let the first paragraph of the DATA SOURCE section there run across the whole width of the screen and then have the chart be alongside the second and third paragraphs of that section, that should work? \
\
Did you catch that this was a Republished for Selena (not Grammy Grammy): https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/06/arts/music/selena-dead.html She is basically referred to be her first name only but later int he obit it says full name was Selena Quintanilla Perez \
\
\
I\'92m still seeing some duplicates \'97\'a0did you check for matching names and similar dates? This one is an original and then a republication of it (and therefore could be listed as an Addl. URL(s) and combined: \
https://www.nytimes.com/2005/11/13/obituaries/ruth-clement-bond-101-quilter-and-civic-leader-is-dead.html\
https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/06/us/ruth-clement-bond-dead.html\
\
Same for Leni Riefenstahl:\
https://www.nytimes.com/2003/09/09/obituaries/leni-riefenstahl-filmmaker-and-nazi-propagandist-dies-at-101.html\
https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/06/world/europe/leni-riefenstahl-dead.html\
\
This is a tricky one \'97\'a0name is Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, born as Elizabeth Angela Marguerite Bowes-Lyon: https://www.nytimes.com/2002/03/31/world/britain-s-beloved-queen-mum-a-symbol-of-courage-dies-at-101.html\
\
There are a whole bunch of professions with which you included the article \'93a\'94 (a CNN Political Commentator) \'97 I think you can drop the article in all those cases\
\
Bunch of ones I recognize just by seeing they don\'92t have normal names that we ought to be able to flag automatically for not having normal names in that field \'97\'a0I will run through them below:\
\
https://www.nytimes.com/2025/12/29/obituaries/2025-deaths-obituaries.html\
\
(Maybe you can look for an unusually large set of entries like this published in the last week of December?) \
\
A remember coronavirus form, not an obit: https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/01/obituaries/coronavirus-victims.html\
\
This isn\'92t an obit, it\'92s a one-time feature: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/19/obituaries/what-they-left-behind-legacies-of-the-recently-departed.html \
\
Nor is this: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/02/obituaries/what-they-left-behind.html\
\
This appears to be announcement of the Overlooked obits (for black history month), not an individual obit: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/obituaries/black-history-month-overlooked.html \'97\'a0there are a bunch of people within it and now Im realizing they may not necessarily going to be included in our database if we drop this article, this is one: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/obituaries/gladys-bentley-overlooked.html\
\
This isn\'92t an obit, its drawing from several of them: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/09/obituaries/5-women-who-changed-how-we-think-about-race.html\
\
This is an overlooked feature about Sophia Perovskaya: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/30/obituaries/overlooked-sophia-perovskaya.html\
\
This isn\'92t an obit: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/21/reader-center/overlooked-obituary-grandmothers.html\
\
This is a special issue about musicians that died that year, not an obit: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/19/obituaries/musicians-who-died.html\
\
These are a special feature, not an obit: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives/moon-neil-armstrong-nasa\
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives/july4-independence-birthday\
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives/cory-booker-frederick-douglass\
\
***\
\
That was forward thinking to remove the CORRECTIONS methodology but please save that material, as we will need to return to it when we fix up that section.\
\
To save space in the nav bar which is getting a little cramped, I think we should lost \'93Home\'94 - leave that the arrival page for everyone, and when a person clicks the logo Below the Fold we should still go there as we always do, I just don\'92t think it needs its own entry in the nav bar? \
\
For obituary names, we\'92ll need to have a secondary process to clean up those you\'92ve derived, which are great but not yet int he right columns. \
\
Above all we don\'92t want to lose any component of the full name, title, suffixes, but we want to store them in appropriate fields to be able to sort them accurately. \
\
(And columns can be simply FIRST, LAST (rather than FIRST NAME, LAST NAME)\
\
Some include a middle initial, we might as well house that in its own field. For example your breaks are the parentheses in what follows and could be updated:\
\
Catherine T. / Nolan \'97> Catherine / T. / Nolan\
David A. / Keene \'97> David / A. / Keene\
\
Some people must have used their middle name:\
\
J. Michael / Bishop \'97> J. / Michael / Bishop\
\
We\'92ve already recognized some people with many many names, we\'92ll need to handle those without losing any of them.\
\
Some folks you\'92ve housed oddly because their suffix (Jr., III) was thought to be a last name \'97 we should identify those and store in its own field:\
\
Robert S. Mueller / III \'97> Robert / S. / Mueller / III\
Monti Rock / III \'97> Monti / Rock / III\
Patriarch Ilia / II \'97> Patriarch / Ilia II (this is an unusual one, the II looks like a suffix but they seem to use it as part of last name)\
\
Earlier I was noticing you seemed to introduce an error by putting some names identical in first and last, I would check your list for any where first and last name are the same and then double-check that this is accurate and not sign of an error. (You have Nhu Nhu for a person who should be named Madame Nhu \'97 and she is a bit of an exception because Madame is a title, really, her full name appear in the article as Madame Ngo Dinh Nhu). You also lack her age, which is given as 86.\
\
Same with  Andr\'e9 Andr\'e9  Who is really Sister Andr\'e9 \
\
\
I reviewed 10 of your \'93review\'94 items and the only one that was incorrect was Leslie Edwards, who is a man (https://www.nytimes.com/2001/02/12/arts/leslie-edwards-84-dancer-with-a-mime-s-touch.html)\
\
These were all correct:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Jane\
Davies\
Norman\
Drachler\
Vera\
Atkins\
James\
Quayle\
Carl\
Rowan\
Thomas\
Labrecque\
Robert\
Chapman\
Henry\
Walter\
Frank H.\
Johnson\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
I don\'92t know if that would cause you to revisit which you think merit \'93Review\'94 \'97\'a0it seems there are about 300 and I can go through them but if this would help you narrow it somewhat? \
\
I think you might want to take a closer look at those in the Republished section, you seem to lack ages for many where it is given, I think you are mis-reading their openings which all begin with a paragraph explaining it is re\'97publsihed, so for those you need to start at the second paragraph:\
\
https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/06/arts/hedy-lamarr-dead.html She was 86\
https://www.nytimes.com/2026/02/17/world/europe/anna-akhmatova-dead.html Her age was 76\
https://www.nytimes.com/2026/02/17/world/europe/fania-fenelon-dead.html She was 74 years old\
https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/06/world/asia/jiang-qing-dead.html She was 77 years old\
https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/06/world/americas/gabriela-mistral-dead.html her age was 67\
\
\
We seem to lack the age for EVERY one of the overlook no more obits (or nearly every), which is fine, just flagging that as an observation. \
\
This person is not \'93Brazilian Nun,\'94 that is her profession. https://www.nytimes.com/2025/05/02/world/americas/inah-canabarro-lucas-oldest-person-dead.html Her title + name was Sister Inah Canabarro Lucas.\
\
When a person downloads a chart of a section\'92s wordcount distribution over the years (and for all years as a historgram), and for the \'93articles by year\'94 chart, it needs title and legend just as we have ensured for other charts we allow people to download. Can you do that in a way that is comparable to the others we\'92ve finessed, or do you need specific guidance from me? \
\
In the ABOUT page, move Obituaries section to just before API Anomalies section\
\
On mobile, obituary table is still a little too wide. Either need to reduce the spacing just slightly between columns (particularly after last name where there is a lot of blank?) or drop gender too, but make it fit. \
\
I don\'92t think you did the review of changes in word distribution by section over the years to flag those that had outlier years (a strangely high share of articles with very low word counts?) \
\
\
\
\
****\
Top of obituaries ,let\'92s lose most of the note, just leave it as:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Every Times obituary since 2001, with name, age, gender, and role parsed from the API.\
\
Clicking through the other tabs we can also do some trimming. Don\'92t need this in Compare Sections: \'93See the About tab for details.\'94\
\
Still seeing some anomalies in your naming that we should find ways to clean up, maybe by looking at extra long and extra short names and then using commonsense to see if they include words that are regular words rather than names (https://www.nytimes.com/2005/09/12/arts/music/guitarist-clarence-gatemouth-brown-dies-at-81.html is Clarence Gatemouth Brown, guitarist was his profession)\
\
\
For now, drop from the navigation bar CORRECTIONS but leave page online so *I* can access it but other people won\'92t necessarily find it until I fix it up further. \
\
Simplify the draft language for obituaries on the ABOUT page considerably to conform with style of existing material. Can be along these lines (and note how I am not including some of your parenthetical  about what we *didn\'92t* do like including cause of death:\
\
A number of steps were taken to identify all obituaries. Records were included that X, Y, or Z. \
\
Then obituaries that appear to have run at distinct URLs within a few days were merged in to a canonical entry.\
\
These were parsed for age, gender, and other information, relying on pronouns the paper used. Special series including Overlooked No More, historical obituaries re-published for special occasions, and a special feature for victims of 9/11 were also tagged. \
\
***\
\
In the carousel, let\'92s remove the \'93articles and words per month\'94 chart and relocate it to the ABOUT tab, and it can be put in much smaller, perhaps half the screen width alongside the Data Source text,  where we describe blog content.\
\
Let\'92s revise the headline and sub headline for Articles, words, and average length (2016-25) to be more informative:\
\
Fewer, longer articles\
Over the last decade, the number of articles published by The New York Times has diminished and the average word count per article has increased. \
\
***\
\
In the SECTION tab: I asked for it before, but I don\'92t see that it made it in: at the top of the list of sections, I thought we should have an entry that is \'93All sections\'94, and it shouldn\'92t get sorted in with the rest of the group when a person clicks the columns. That would give users the ability to review the same information (articles by year, word count distribution) we have for any individual section, but look at it across the entire paper\
\
Let\'92s have the \'93Compare sections\'94 chart toggled off to start when a person loads it, and have a button to open it just like we do for the US states. \
\
Let\'92s also have it not been populated by five entries when it\'92s open, I\'92d rather users have to select themselves.\
\
In the SECTION pop-up:\
\
For the All Years line charts\'92 colors, can we make the oldest year even a little bit lighter (so as to create a broader contrast across the full spectrum of blues)\
\
In the x axis, will need a final entry that says 3800+ or whatever that last bar is, so people know it is open-ended, and that value should be visible on mobile too (at any screen width)\
\
We need to add a JPG button for the word count distribution chart (whether By year or All Years), just as we have for the ARTICLES PER YEAR chart\
\
On mobile, these side-by-side charts aren\'92t wrapping, and that\'92s causing navigation of that tab to be bad on mobile. \
\
Of those All year word count distribution charts, a few observations:\
\
In Obituaries section, wordcount length seems to grow each year in a way amazing in its purity. But there are  a few early years  that seem to have had much higher bounds\'85 Are those years that we didn\'92t have good tagging of bits (2000-2004?)  What was going on with those years, very light colored ones? \
\
For now I don\'92t think we can reconcile the different numbers on obituaries as a SECTION (which arent all original obits) and the OBITUARIES tab (which includes some obits that weren\'92t filed int he section, right?) \
\
The New York section all years chart shows clearly getting longer. But I see in early years a large share of the New York section were very low workout (under 300 words), can we tell what that is about? \
\
The BOOK section shows the distribution getting more and more focused around a narrower band of acceptable word count\
\
In ARTS there is also an earlier year that appears to have bee nan outlier distirbution\'a0\'97\'a0can you see what that is?\
\
And from these observations I\'92ve made, can you can review ALL the sections word count distributions to see there are any years that are outside the norm of their others, for example with an abnormally large number having a low word count, to flag and investigate?\
\
\
The OBITUARY tab: \
\
for the table of individuals, maybe it should be conformed to the way we did the reporters one (directly on the page rather than in a white box) to save space.\
\
Let\'92s remove the top-line stats (we don\'92t have those on other pages and readers can infer most of it from looking at the charts)\
\
For the date in obituary, can we show it in a more readable and compact format: mm/dd/yy\
\
\
On mobile, the charts in obituaries tab are not wrapping  and are opening up a void on the side. \
\
Also on mobile, the table at the bottom is much too wide to fit mobile, you\'92ll need to hide some columns - let\'92s retain publication date, first and last name, gender, age\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\
***\
\
Not an obit (linked w Richard N. Goodwin): https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/05/21/obituaries/document-Goodwin-Speech.html\
\
End-of-year for COVID deaths : https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/30/obituaries/2020-covid-deaths.html\
\
More end of year: https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/30/obituaries/2020-deaths.html\
\
A Mother\'92s Day interactive, not an obit: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/05/06/obituaries/mothers-day.html\
\
Another mother\'92s day feature, not an obit: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2026/03/06/obituaries/archives/notable-women-deaths-obituaries.html\
\
A republication of Eleanor Roosevelt (who they curiously call Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, totally inappropriately): https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/06/us/politics/eleanor-roosevelt-dead.html\
\
I went through those with unparsed names manually.\
\
This is an orbit for Richard Burke, he was 73: https://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/15/business/15burke.html\
\
This is an obit for Mary Travers, she was 72: https://www.nytimes.com/2009/09/17/arts/music/17travers.html\
\
This seem to be audio, it\'92s not an obit: https://podcasts.nytimes.com/podcasts/2015/09/04/obituaries/joygolden1/05-Track-05.mp3\
\
This is a Not Forgotten for Jesse Owens: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives\
\
This is a big interactive with many people published in the Not overlooked theme, but I think they each have their own page so we don\'92t need to keep this root: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/obituaries/overlooked.html\
\
This is an end of year thing, not individual orbit: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/26/obituaries/deaths-in-2018.html\
\
As is this: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/29/obituaries/2022-deaths.html\
\
\
Memorial announcement not obit for Cynthia Feuer: https://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/16/obituaries/16feuer.html\
\
Same, for Maureen Stapleton: https://www.nytimes.com/2006/09/17/obituaries/17stapleton.html\
\
For Robert Altman: https://www.nytimes.com/2007/02/09/us/09smith.html\
\
For Ahmet Ertegun: https://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/02/obituaries/02ertegun.html\
\
For Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. (whether you used that full name in obit or not - he died 2/28/07): https://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/16/obituaries/16schlesinger.html\
\
\
For Molly Ivins: https://www.nytimes.com/2007/02/05/obituaries/05ivins.html\
\
A news item about death of Anna Nicole Smith (not an obit): https://www.nytimes.com/2007/02/09/us/09smith.html\
\
\
***\
\
\
Eventually we\'92ll want to go through all the names without gender parsed and either manually fix or otherwise.  I can feed you them and we can see how to whittle down.\
\
Do we know why obit volume was low in those early years? If we can\'92t find the missing ones, we should probably dropped those early years from our chart in the carousel, as it is confusing to see that foregrounded there (though can leave it visible in the obits TAB. \
\
With so few \'93UNKNOWN\'94 age of death now, I don\'92t think it needs its own legend item on the AGE OF DEATH CHART? \
\
Have you been updating the number of obituaries we say we have 2001-26 as you\'92ve revised which of these URLs are actually obituaries? Just want to make sure that remains accurate, as does the number under the female share calculation.\
\
The age column in the OBITUARIES tab doesn\'92t appear to be sortable, ca it be? \
\
\
\
\
****\
\
Can\'92t help myself one more set of changes: \
\
\
This is a year end recap, shouldn\'92t be included (or named Among Deaths in 2016): https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/30/obituaries/among-deaths-in-2016-a-heavy-toll-in-pop-music.html\
Complicated name (Ayman al-Zawahri\'a0\
), killed at 71:  https://www.nytimes.com/2022/08/01/world/asia/ayman-al-zawahri-dead.html\
Eben Pyne, age 89 (they missed comma after his name): https://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/13/obituaries/13pyne.html\
\
And you missed this Not Forgotten, for Aaliyah Dana Haughton: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives (Not named Not Forgotten) \
\
Looks like you have a bunch that still have that \'93Not Forgotten:\'94 jammed into their first name, and that also screws up your finding their gender, presumably because you aren\'92t applying your scraper to the appropriate content in the obit after the explanation of what the not forgotten column is.\
\
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives/archduke-franz-ferdinand-world-war\
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives/george-gallup\
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/projects/cp/obituaries/archives/july4-independence-birthday\
\
Some other one off ideiosyncracxies:\
\
An annual recap (not an obit): https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/26/obituaries/in-a-year-of-notable-deaths-a-world-of-women-who-shattered-ceilings.html\
\
This is a 9/11 one: https://www.nytimes.com/2001/11/18/national/portraits/vito-deleo-never-surrender.html\
\
This was a coronavirus interactive: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/obituaries/people-died-coronavirus-obituaries.html\
\
Got this name wrong, it\'92s David Shulman (not A Man Of Many): https://www.nytimes.com/2004/11/07/nyregion/a-man-of-many-words-david-shulman-dies-at-91.html\
\
****\
\
\
OK< last fixes and then I will stop for now.\
\
Simplify obituary checks boxes (not \'93only\'94)\
\
Overlooked No More\
Republished\
9/11 Portraits of Grief\
\
You can remove the OVERLOOKED NO MORE and REPUBLISHED columns now, too, no need for portability if we can toggle them w checkbox\
\
There are a bunch of obits listed w First/Last Notable Deaths \'97\'a0those are not individual obits so we can drop those from this table. \
\
The URL(s) column only gets an entry when it\'92s an additional URL, right? Let\'92s rename it Addl. URL(s)\
\
Yo\'92ve added those little uncertainty labels on gender of some people which could be helpful for me but I can\'92t sort on it, can you shift it to its own column called Review\
\
We don\'92t appear to be effectively parsing profession/role for 9/11 portraits of grief, let\'92s just forgo those for that group. \
\
I think we are at the point where we can add to our home page carousel an image of the gender split over obits. Can you generate a version of it, as you did for the global map and Iowa chart, etcetera, that would be a live chart that would resize for different page dimensions, that would go into an item in the INSIGHTS tab, and could be titled and subtitled as follows (and w a link below like the other carousel items in the case pushing the user to the OBITUARIES tab) \
\
An enduring gender divide\
The New York Times has made an effort to elevate more women in its obituary notices, but even in recent years men have outnumbered women in obituaries two to one.\
\
We will also need to drop the 2026 data from the chart \'97\'a0both in what you produce and in the obituary tab \'97\'a0because it\'92s high but I think an artifact of it being incomplete.\
\
Note some oddball names Article 2002042594050722801 etcetera that need to be fixed\
\
If still in the obits, note that this seems to be misclassified on NYT website, it isn\'92t an obit (and at bottom of article indicate it published in national section of print): https://www.nytimes.com/2003/05/14/obituaries/us-repeats-north-korea-stance-before-visit-from-souths-leader.html\
\
I also came across another way corrections could show up, with the exact title \'93A Correction\'94: https://www.nytimes.com/2003/12/04/arts/theater/a-correction.html\
\
That one is a correction to an obituary, which we could incorporate into the note you prepared yourself on thinking (eventually) about incorporating those into our database. We should also incorporate into your newspaper-wide search for corrections this possible title variation. \
\
\
\
****\
\
\
\
Consistent with our other sections, get ride of the little note at the bottom of Obits that reads \'93Methodology in\'a0About 
\f5 \uc0\u8594 
\f4  Draft sections.\'94 And also get rid of the download JPG button at the bottom of the table of obituaries, which doesn\'92t seem to pertain to anything. There could be JPG download buttons on the Age At Death and Gender Split Over Time visualizations up higher, however.\
\
\
I am seeing a bunch of obits that I think were for 9/11 victims, and don\'92t have a standard format. That might be why they aren\'92t parsing. I am guessing they all published in a similar time period:\
\
https://www.nytimes.com/2001/12/23/national/portraits/james-andrew-ogrady-a-place-for-everything.html\
\
This is an atypical one for Ed Bradley \'97\'a0I wonder if you could go back to the \'93unparsed\'94 obits, see if you can fetch a name, and then see if it matches an obit in the let\'92s say 1 month prior to the publication of this second unparsed obit. In which case it would be ripe for adding as a secondary URL to the first obit? \
\
https://www.nytimes.com/2006/11/22/obituaries/arts/subjects-and-colleagues-recall-ed-bradley.html\
\
This isn\'92t an obit, it\'92s an announcement of a memorial for a David Halberstam: https://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/09/nyregion/09halberstam.html\
\
This is a traditional obit, not sure why it didn\'92t parse: https://www.nytimes.com/2007/07/01/nyregion/01mancuso.html\
The Rev. Laurence Mancuso, he was 72.\
\
And this one: https://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/24/us/24sanders.html\
Judge Harold Barefoot Sanders (three names), he was 83.\
\
And then there are some odd ones possibly like this which is by its URL a slideshow: https://www.nytimes.com/slideshow/2010/03/02/obituaries/20100302-BACHRACH_index.html\
\
And this one: https://archive.nytimes.com/www.nytimes.com/slideshow/2003/07/28/obituaries/28cnd-hope.slideshow_index.html\
\
It\'92s curious we have fewer obits in 2001-5, I am guessing that is us dropping some due to the API. And weird we had so many in 2006, and 2020 for that matter. \
\
In your notes as you worked you said you skipped 40,063 corrections (in full in context: \'93Skipped 40,063 corrections, 282 non-obit package/lesson articles; merged 856 same-name near-duplicates (\'b110 days). 24,862 
\f5 \uc0\u8594 
\f4  24,006\'85) What does that mean? There weren\'92t that many corrections to just 24K obits, were there? \
\
In the genders table, can we make REPUBLISHED a check box, same as OVERLOOKED NO MORE? And for some reason right now when I sort by REPUBLISHED it doesn\'92t bring anything up. \
\
There are still a ton of unparsed names and I don\'92t know why\
\
\
Anne Heche, a woman: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/08/12/us/anne-heche-brain-injury.html\
\
This one is a video, should be linked with the death of E.O. Wilson to whom it pertains: https://www.nytimes.com/video/obituaries/1194834030869/last-word-e-o-wilson-obituary.html\
\
Another slideshow: https://www.nytimes.com/slideshow/2021/08/19/obituaries/a-look-at-hiros-work.html\
\
Seems to be secondary article for Jim Fassel: https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/08/sports/football/jim-fassel-giants-dead.html\
\
This doesn\'92t seem to be an obit at all: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/04/05/learning/lesson-plans/lesson-of-the-day-we-know-the-pledge-its-author-maybe-not.html\
\
Whitey Bulger: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/30/obituaries/whitey-bulger-dead.html\
\
Slideshow for Prince: https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts/music/100000004351247/the-prince-of-infectious-pop.html\
\
What is your process right now with those we have not matched with names, etc? Are you screening them for all the anomalies I have identified in these last few notes? Need to be, and either fixing them or dropping those that are not obits.  If there is a whole 9/11 trove in 2001 (perhaps all published 12/23/21?) we could add a special checkbox to just see those\
\
\
\
Overlooked No more, name is Sultan Khan (not Sultan Sultan): https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/27/obituaries/sultan-khan-overlooked.html\
\
****\
\
Change heading \'93Overlooked\'94 to Overlooked no more (no need for quote marks around it)\
Change column Follow-Up to URL(s)\
\
\
\
I still see some names that begin \'93From 1992: \'85 From 1999:\'94 \'97\'a0these seem to be RE published obits as a package for women\'92s history month, etc. These are different than overlooked which were new coverage of old events. We should have a flag for them that is different, but we may end up dropping them as not original coverage. And we should fix the name so it\'92s the actual person\'92s name. That may also explain why you missed the gender and age, as it\'92s lower down after the note explaining the series, which kicks off the article (\'93This obituary was originally\'a0published\'a0on May 7, 1992. It is being republished in preparation for a package for Women\'92s History Month.\'94)\
\
https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/06/movies/marlene-dietrich-dead.html\
https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/06/arts/design/charlotte-perriand-dead.html\
\
This is one of those and was imported as name From From (obviously inccorect): https://www.nytimes.com/2026/03/06/world/asia/sirimavo-bandaranaike-dead.html\
\
\
I\'92m confused why this is listed in the obits, it\'92s an arts article, but maybe around the time of Jimmy Cliff\'92s death? But it broke your parser, for evident reasons.\
https://www.nytimes.com/2025/11/24/arts/music/jimmy-cliff-harder-they-come.html\
\
These others are included but oddly so \'97\'a0I guess these are additional articles about the dead? I think we can leave them out of the obits if that is the case\'85 I supposed we could flag them as a \'93secondary\'94 link and add them to the original obit, that is if we can identify and match on the person\'92s name and the era in which they died it would be contemporaneous to this:\
https://www.nytimes.com/2025/05/14/world/americas/pepe-mujica-uruguay.html\
\
This one related to but not the obit for Dr. Peter Fenwick: https://www.nytimes.com/2025/01/17/science/near-death-experiences.html\
\
This one for Aleksei Navalny: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/27/obituaries/in-a-political-year-some-deaths-spoke-to-the-struggles-for-democracy.html\
\
There are occasionally a sort of year en memoriam article for all the deaths, like this \'97\'a0but again not a single person\'92s obit: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/12/28/obituaries/obituaries-deaths-2023.html\
\
Dame Edna, given \'93he\'94 pronoun and \'93his\'94 in the article but there is some confusion later as referred to as she: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/22/theater/barry-humphries-dead.html\
\
Another two-person obit, difficult to parse: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/04/03/arts/music/mighty-diamonds-dead.html\
\
This is not an obit at all: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/29/learning/lesson-plans/lesson-of-the-day-friendship-betrayal-and-the-fight-suffs-tells-the-suffragist-tale-in-song.html\
\
And then I finally went back and looked at the SECTION tab. The word count distribution loads quickly, which is great (fixed). \
\
I like the toggle to \'93by years\'94 but then when it gets there it somewhat freezes \'97\'a0is giving all the lines their own pop-up overloading it? I don\'92t think we need any rollover info on that chart. And then when I try to go back to ALL YEARS on the toggle, it gets to a blank chart, seems like it kind of broke it. And then when I go back to BY YEAR it is blank too. And then when I click any other section, neither its articles by year or word count distribution chart comes up, so I have to reload the whole website. \
\
Also, browsing the SCIENCE section coverage I note a weird drop in 2005 \'97\'a0my guess is that is something to do with the API, not an actual decline in that section. We might need to investigate based on where their typical reporters (at that time) were publishing). \
\
Let\'92s sort the grid reporters in descending 2025 wordcount\
\
Can you document where these corrections you\'92ve identified are, how you did it, etcetera, so we can incorporate it into a corrections analysis once I get to that on Monday?\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I\'92m confused about how you did the gender detection of obituaries \'97\'a0I thought we were looking at pronouns and possessives (his, hers) in the first paragraph of text? We weren\'92t inferring based on masculine/feminine name, were we? I want to know with what confidence we have inferred gender fort those we have\'85 \
\
As you worked I noticed a fair number of obits that were duplicates but sometimes published on separate days \'97 the name was the same and frequently the age and gender (although if there had been a correction they might differ). This was one such pair:\
\
https://www.nytimes.com/2010/04/01/arts/design/01gowland.html\
https://www.nytimes.com/2010/04/05/arts/design/05gowland.html\
\
\
I\'92m looking at the unparsed names now and wondering why they fell through.\
\
https://www.nytimes.com/2001/04/22/obituaries/d-avramovic-is-dead-at-81-reform-figure-for-yugoslavs.html \'97> Dragoslav Avramovic (first words in obit, in that case). Gender and age at death evident in that first pagagraph. Is that something you have / are accessing? \
\
https://www.nytimes.com/2001/05/28/obituaries/representative-joe-moakley-of-massachusetts-dies-at-74.html \'97> Rep. Joe Moakley\
\
https://www.nytimes.com/2001/06/04/obituaries/birendra-55-nepals-king-during-transition-to-democracy-is-dead.html \'97> King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev (so many names, not sure which is first v last but you could just put the first word in First and the rest of the name in Last?\
\
https://www.nytimes.com/2001/07/30/international/prof-derek-freeman-dies-at-84-challenged-margaret-mead.html \'97> Professor Derek Freeman\
\
You say you dropped obits that had duplicates \'97\'a0I only worry that in dropping one of the obits we might be losing for example an updated version. Is it possible to go back and *merge* the two so you would *keep* the latter link? (Maybe as a final column \'93Secondary URL?\'94 And it would say \'93link\'94 when there was one, and it would hyperlink there?\
\
\
I\'92m glad you flagged the \'93overlooked\'94 but we should have that as its own column entry and be sortable, so a person can pull all those up. (Not jammed into the last name column) \
\
I see that overlooked sometimes are not written quite as formally \'97 this one doesn\'92t make it super clear the gender of the subject until later in the article, which may be why you missed it. Though they will GENERALLY be a she, not always. \
\
This is a she: (https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/obituaries/kate-worley-overlooked.html)\
\
Another unusual one (https://www.nytimes.com/2024/04/12/obituaries/lizzie-magie-overlooked.html)\
\
Another unusual one https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/18/obituaries/overlooked-harriott-daley.html\
\
And this is an unusual obit being of two people (https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/11/obituaries/overlooked-lin-huiyin-and-liang-sicheng.html)\
\
There are going to be some people that don\'92t use exclusively one he or she pronoun, they will be rare but its possible they use \'93they\'94. In this case, the obit explains the person (Lucy Schob, she) chose to be called Claude Cahun, he - that\'92s a very difficult case for us to parse or figure out how to categorize: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/19/obituaries/claude-cahun-overlooked.html\
\
\
On the grid of reporters, out of curiosity what order did you put them in? I thought it was most to least words in 2025, which was fine, but now sweeping my cursor over them it seems random? Which is also fine, just wanted to know.\
\
\
Do we need to run some other kind of diagnostic across articles in the paper to hunt for other collections of corrections that were not tagged? These for obituaries had headline \'93Correction,\'94 right, and nothing but that? IF we looked across everything in the API for similar, would we find other groupings in other sections at various times? If so, we\'92d want to flag them into corrections and eventually scrape and incorporate them into our data, weeding out duplicates. \
\
\
****\
\
The obituaries is very promising.\
We should indicate \'93Date\'94 is publication date lest people think that is the date the person died.\
Name is working but it would be nice if we could sort by first or last name.\
I see many (unparsed) names and as I click through them many (perhaps all) are corrections. Are these types of articles identified in the \'93corrections\'94 we already have elsewhere? Interesting if they are omitted, as it suggests there are corrections within the paper we haven\'92t yet identified.\
We should also find a way to go through these with unparsed names and determine if all are corrections and therefore don\'92t need to create an original listing in the \'93obituaries\'94 section \'97\'a0which will also help us get to a more accurate count of how many obits the paper has published and for whom. \
\
Some of the corrections are of course about facts like age and possibly even name, but I can\'92t think of an easy way to incorporate them into our listing of the obituaries although we can save that as something to figure out later. (Linking these corrections with the obituary in question, updating info based on them). \
\
It appears that many of the obits without gender are these without names, either, but same are. \
\
I also see at least one duplicate (8/24/06 Yen Do) \'97 we should check if there are other duplicates by name and date.\
\
I\'92m curious why gender didn\'92t parse for Lou Hudson for example \'97 it uses pronoun \'93he\'94 in first paragraph (he was 69). https://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/12/sports/basketball/sweet-lou-hudson-69-a-master-of-the-jump-shot-dies.html Same with Omar Sharif (he was 83): https://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/11/movies/omar-sharif-a-star-in-dr-zhivago-dies-at-83.html Etiennte Emile Baulieu (He was 98): https://www.nytimes.com/2025/05/31/health/etienne-emile-baulieu-dead.html\
\
There are a handful with names that pulled in \'93What they left behind:\'94, a handful with titles appended (The Reverend). We might need to tag special types of obits if those constitute a separate class. There are also some old obits the paper began publishing for women who were forgotten, we should have a checkbox for them to isolate them, and we can keep them in the publication year for now, but it would be good to isolate them. \
\
The corrections tab is interesting and I recognize I will need to see it to work on it, but I am also uneasy listing \'93top reporters with corrections\'94 right now when we have just one year of data and its incomplete. At the least we should drop that *and also the \'93most corrected\'94 indicator up top. \
\
Oh, and for now put the language you affixed as \'93methodology\'94 to each of these sections at the bottom of the ABOUT tab, under API anomalies, in a new section entitled  \'93Draft sections\'94\
\
And then have subheading under neath it \'93obituaries\'94 and \'93corrections\'94 with the methods. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
I would like to try to identify all the articles wrongly given 0  \
  wordcount and figure out if it is feasible to go back and  \
  find their (approximate) word count at least for those     \
  with apparent body text. i think it would start byt        \
  identyfiing the main groupings of 0 word articles by       \
  section, URL, etcetera, and then possibly my doing some    \
  manual exploration of waht those articles look like in     \
  practice. some may be impossible to parse (data viz etc)   \
  but ifsome have evident text on the URL, i wonder if it    \
  would be a feasible number we could query and recount the  \
  words. 2) I wondered if it would be possible, in the       \
  SECTIONS tab, to add a top-most value (slightly separated  \
  from the sections so it doesn't get sorted with them) that \
   is All Sections. And to also make it queryable in the     \
  articles/year, words/year. avg + median words chart higher \
   up? And secondly I wondered if we could add a fourth      \
  toggle up there that would give the histogram of           \
  wordcounts for a selected section. To make them all        \
  comprable I'd want the histogram to be a fixed x axis for  \
  all the sections displayed, and fairly granular. maybe     \
  0-250, 250-500, 500-750 etcetera up to 3,000, and then a   \
  3000+ bucket? Or if there is room for more we could go     \
  higher. I think this would be most valuable to see if it   \
  was given per year as a little line chart, with oldest     \
  year faintest and most recent year darkest, so you could   \
  see how the distribution has changed over time. With 26+   \
  years of data this may be too noisy a chart but I'd love   \
  to see it. It would only be meant to display one section   \
  at a time on that one *unlike the other charts* so if you  \
  prpoose we locate it somewhere else, I am open to that.    \
  actually, now taht I am thining aout it I wonder if we     \
  could simply put this as a disaply in the WORD COUNT       \
  DISTRIBUTION chart for each section pop-up? Though those   \
  are loading *so slow* right now I am not sure they are eve \
   working. And it woudl need to be a toggle from the chart  \
  we have right now, which uses all years and allows readers \
   to filter the articles below. 3) I am curious in          \
  exploring the obituaries. Do we think we can accurately    \
  pull data from those? At most basic that might include     \
  gender of deceased, age and/or birth date of deceased,     \
  profession, cause of death. I asume some of this is        \
  reliably in headline and/or first paragraph. 4) I am also  \
  curious what we can with corrections. again, what data can \
   we infer from them. Do they reliably list the date and    \
  title of the article they are correcting? is it eough for  \
  us to link it to that article? and therefore to idetify    \
  which articles had a correction... which woud be an        \
  interesting sub-data set to explore. 5) lastly in the vein \
   of coming up with interesting trivia, which reporter      \
  shared bylines in 2025 with the most unique people? maybe  \
  the top 3, actually, in case one is a data- or infographic \
   person or something.\
\
\
\
I am looking for interesting findings.\
\
Do we know which reporter (or reporters) who had contributions to the most different sections last year? Maybe overall number of sections but then we\'92d also look at how substantive they were.\
\
Is there a new keyword that was added and had a lot of mentions? I imagine there are always some driven by major events, which would be interesting, but im wondering whenever a non time-bound one shows up too. \
\
Just thinking for a sort of Spotify-wrapped year in review type of findings that would be quirky and shareable. \
\
\
****\
\
It\'92s a small thing but on mobile when I am looking at the grid of reporters, and then I swipe a little bit they can move off-center, revealing space beside them\'85 \
\
This is because there is effectively space in the carousel to their right, which I think you are solving by having additional carousel items re-size the user up to the top.\
\
Is it possible to have the screen for the reporters locked at the margin they are displaying at for them, so they can only shift to the right in a way that brings up the next carousel item? \
\
***\
\
Can you make sure the website is loading on the HOME tab on opening? I opened it on my mobile and think it went to ABOUT.\
\
Also, are the image files of the journalist compressed to the size possible without losing quality (even when rendered at the largest size we are using, which seems to be in the 5x20 grid)? I assume they are since the NYT uses them, but I did notice they seemed to be taking a little time to load.\
\
I wonder how easy it would be to give each image a rollover that would open up and display their name, number of articles in 2025, and number of words? Simple, just carriage returns in between, no ranking.\
\
I would love to have a chart for \'93a new kind of presidency\'94 that would scale to different aspect ratios (mobile, etc), whereas right now we have a static image. I do like the formatting choices in this (lined chart with fairly transparent fill) and the X and Y axes\'85 the legend would be better at top of chart. Are you capable of remaking that in a format that will display better, maybe even allow a person roll their cursor over a line in the chart and get the Month Year it represents? I will attach the CSV data.\
\
We have an even bigger problem with the \'93cyclical coverage\'94 chart because it\'92s so wide and not vertical. Are you capable of pulling the data on Iowa itself? This is a chart directly downloaded form our \'93Compare State Coverage\'94 chart, and when I put Iowa in there I can see the data points and years. If you were able to pull those out and then turn that into a live chart for this carousel, that too would be great.\
\
And then the same for the global map, it would be nice to have a live chart where we could roll over the countries and get their values (even if a global projection map would be tough/impossible to scale to different aspect ratios). \
\
Let me know what you propose to do about this before proceeding.\
\
Also, on mobile, I am noticing that there is a big gap under the carousel charts that are not tall/vertical (like the 5x20 reporter grid) and the navigation dots and \'93For methodology, data sources\'85\'94 note. I imagine that is because it is allowing all that vertical space for the carousel but is there any way to close that space for the smaller items in the carousel?\
\
And small thing but in the Articles, words and average length chart, please remove the hyphen that precedes Avg words/article in the legend \'97\'a0we have a line to represent the mark on the chart and that is enough.  \
\
\
\
\
\
\
****\
We should crop off the title and URL on the \'93A new kind of presidency\'94 chart as it junks up the top of the image. \
We should also crop off the title and info at the top of the global map. \
\
\
\
Slight tweak to data source text:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The New York Times Archive API indexes all document types published on nytimes.com \'97 news, opinion, reviews, obituaries, and interactives \'97\'a0and this dashboard includes all of them. \
That includes both standard articles and blog content, like those hosted at subdomains blogs.nytimes.com, dealbook.nytimes.com, and krugman.blogs.nytimes.com. Blog posts were typically much shorter (averaging 100\'96460 words vs. 600\'96900 for non-blog articles), published in higher volume, often without an author name attached. The posts from blogs (ArtsBeat, CityRoom, The Caucus, The Lede, Economix, Bits, Wheels, Fifth Down, Straight Sets, and more) peaked at nearly 56% of all indexed articles in 2009. Blog indexing then declined steadily as the NYT wound down its blog properties between 2013 and 2018; by 2019, essentially no content is published at blog subdomains.\
Content from The Athletic is not available in the Archive API and is therefore absent, which is why Sports coverage appears to decline sharply after the NYT's 2022 acquisition of that publication. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\
\
Can we add a little \'93Insights\'94 label on the far left of the carousel somehow, a subtle indication of what it is? Maybe a tag on its left edge? \
\
Each carousel item should link out to another tab like you did for the reporters tab one  \'97\'a0do that for headlines, U.S. States, World. (We\'92ll figure out charts for beats and sections later.)\
\
The second carousel item should be titled: A new kind of presidency\
\
And it can say something along the lines that \'93President Trump dominated the New York Times headlines like no previous president, even when he was not in office.\'94\
\
Iowa chart tile can be: \'93Cyclical coverage\'94\
\
And below it can say: \'93The New York Times coverage of Iowa follows a tried and true cycle, driven by presidential primary politics.\'94\
\
The world chart can be a little less judgmental:\
\
A global paper, albeit with blind spots\
\
And below it can say: Conflict reliably draws the New York Times attention, but large swaths of the globe rarely get covered. \
\
And then I think this is good, can we push all the changes live? \
\
\
\
***\
In the carousel:\
\
Let\'92s replace the title (\'93The 100 most prolific reporters in 2025\'94) w/ \'93The most prolific reporters in 2025\'94. And for the text below it, to avoid repetition, go with: Just a hundred reporters bylined ##### words, 26% of the total newspaper. (Assuming you have that stat?)\
\
Can we also make sure the grid of faces upsizes the images to run all the way to the margins of the white box?  (And at a narrower size, whenever resizing doesn\'92t work, it reloads as a 5 x 20 grid instead?)\
\
I\'92m reattaching the trump/biden/obama/bush chart but you ought to be able to generate it yourself from our dashboard, and at the appropriate aspect ratio for the carousel. Same for Iowa, same for the World geography. \
\
\
\
\
***\
\
\
About page should not include the content from the HOME page \'97\'a0cut that from its top\
\
Lose the \'93latest update\'94 section too, we no longer need\
\
Lets change\'94Included articles\'94 to \'93Data source\'94\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Change: \'93Reporters without a custom bio page lack this classification.\'94 \'97> \'93For reporters who lack a custom bio page, no classification is given.\'94\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Cut this phrase: \'93\'a0\'97 tags assigned by the Times, not by this dashboard.\'94\
\
Rewrite beats paragraph as follows:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The beat topics shown on reporter profiles are derived from the NYT's own subject tags. When a reporter covers a subject twice as frequently (as a share of their overall coverage) as the newspaper as a whole, and has written a minimum of two articles about the subject, it is classified as a beat. Authors with few articles, or few articles carrying subject tags, may have no beats listed.\
\
Drop the mention of en Espanol \'97> En espanol merge, I think that one is less important as its just a change in capitalization\
\
Change geography to remove the bold subheadings. As fpollows:\
\
Analysis of national coverage draws from articles in the "U.S." section and the \'93New York" section. Many articles in the latter section lack geographic tags, however, and are not included in the analysis. Locations internal to states  (e.g., "Chicago") are mapped to their parent states.\
Analysis of international coverage draws from articles in the "World" section Articles with geographic tags that appears in other sections (Opinion, Business, etc.) are not included.\
Population data for per-capita calculations from the 2020 U.S. Census. Country populations come from the Natural Earth 110m Cultural Vectors dataset (the\'a0POP_EST\'a0field, which aggregates UN and World Bank figures).\
\
Then on the HOME page:\
\
Everything should have the same margins and be centered \'97\'a0right now the text has too narrow a margin, the 3 big numbers much wider. Align them, and keep in mind the location of the title and tabs underneath it.\
\
The top 100 authors chart should not have so much text \'97\'a0just leave it at this:\
In 2025, the 100 most prolific reporters at the New York Times penned bylines that made up 26% of the newspaper. \
\
And maybe we make the chart 20 wide by 5 tall, if that will fit in desktop? And then on mobile maybe it\'92s\'85 5 tall and 20 deep? \
\
I already sent you the charts about trump coverage, Iowa, the world. Do you need me to create those for you again? \
And the volume over time chart and other chart should be separate boxes in the carousel, expanded to fit appropriately into it, and have their individual titles and notes back with them (you removed them in the last edit).\
Your little note at the bottom about the About tab is cool but it\'92s overlapping with the send feedback button??\
I don\'92t think you fixed something I told you last time \'97\'a0when a person is looking at a reporter tab and then clicks \'93close,\'94 the should clear the reporter list of their name rather than take us back to the reporter page with their name filled in and their name among the only appearing in the list. I just clicked Ezra Klein\'92s photo, it took me to his pop up, and then when I closed it, there he was written into the reporrters tab still.\
\
Also, there are some trailing \'93The Ezra Klein Show\'94 entries that probably ned to get merged with his byline?\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
****\
\
First the ABOUT page.\
\
Let\'92s retitle \'93What\'92s counts as an article\'94 to \'93Included articles\'94\
\
Let\'92s be stylistically similar across the subsections \'97\'a0use the bullets where we need them (Sections, API anomalies). Which means in that first section they can be paragraphs, not bullets.\
The API indexing duplicate articles is addressed down in API anomalies so let\'92s move that bullet down and integrate anything that isn\'92t duplicative into the entry below but not retain it up here.\
\
Paragraphs should have a subtle line-separation between them (you don\'92t appear to have any right now in some places).\
\
Let\'92s make the Blogs section part of the \'93article\'94 section and lose that heading \'97 rewrite as below including entirely removing the Krugman bit.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The API includes both standard articles and blog content, like those hosted at subdomains\'a0blogs.nytimes.com\'a0,\'a0dealbook.nytimes.com, and krugman.blogs.nytimes.com. Blog posts were typically much shorter (averaging 100\'96460 words vs. 600\'96900 for non-blog articles), published in higher volume, often without an author name attached. The posts from blogs (ArtsBeat, CityRoom, The Caucus, The Lede, Economix, Bits, Wheels, Fifth Down, Straight Sets, and more) peaked at nearly 56% of all indexed articles in 2009. Blog indexing then declined steadily as the NYT wound down its blog properties between 2013 and 2018; by 2019, essentially no content is published at blog subdomains.\
\
Authors should not be bullets \'97\'a0Let\'92s make it comparable to the other sections in style, which means having a clearer opening sentence explaining each point.\
\
\'93Words counts\'94 can be \'93Words\'94 and text can read: \
\
The API includes a word count of each article, but has some anomalies. Interactive and multimedia pieces including data visualizations and photo essays are typically indexed with a word count of zero, even when they contain substantial reporting. Interactives make up roughly 10% of New York Times Magazine items in the API and a growing share of digital-native journalism. Word-count statistics for sections with heavy interactive output (Magazine, Upshot, Visual Investigations) and for individual authors who shifted toward multimedia formats therefore understate actual editorial output.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Don\'92t enumerate the steps for Beats \'97\'a0put this in a paragraph form with proper sentences. \
\
For the HOME page\
\
Lost the text \'93Below the Fold \'97 a New York Times dashboard\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf2 An interactive look at 26 years of Times journalism: who is writing what, where, and about whom\'94 \'97\'a0it is duplicative of the title.\
The text under it shouldn\'92t be italics, it should be easy to read. And I think we should integrate the # of articles, words, and authors up there at the top somehow.\
\
The Carousel could be below. It shouldn\'92t extent vertically onto the next screen, it should be fully visible on a desktop. It\'92s where you could put the articles and words per month and articles, words, and average length charts (appropriately resized). \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The grid is actually working pretty well but I think we need to shrink the size by about 1/3 in both directions. \
\
\
***\
\
This is good.\
\
On the HOME page (for lack of a better name just yet), I do think I\'92m going to want to come up with better content to feature. Not just anomalies about the data but trends that I\'92ve developed charts for. And maybe we\'92ll have them in a carousel or something. For now we can leave in the charts we have on that page but they are pretty esoteric and complicated and people will want others.\
\
These might be: a comparison of coverage over various presidents, showing Trump\'92s dominance.\
The cyclical coverage of Iowa. \
The gaps in global coverage.\
The 100 reporters / 26% stat although I have to figure out how to visualize it. (We may end up wanting to retrieve from the NYT bio pages of the top 100 reporters their profile photo, and then use this in a grid of 100 (10 x 10) as a way of quickly communicating who they are in NYT style. \
\
\
\
For the ABOUT page:\
\
Let\'92s do authors before word-counts, and tell how many we reduced the number of unique authors by in doing so.\
\
I don\'92t think we need to explicitly tell people to use medians over means in compare sections chart (enough that we have provided both). \
\
For beats, let\'92s do a very clear explanation of our process of defining those. \
\
For sections, let\'92s first explain the sections we merged (and bullets are OK but might make sense to have multiple columns, and to keep the space between lines to a minimum so this doesn\'92t take up a ton of space). \
\
The explain which we exclude from viewing. \
\
Then explain their relationship to authors. Instead of \'93each author gets a primary section\'94 (I realize you are paraphrasing here), it should be: Authors are assigned a primary section (and that\'92s for each year, right? And their section could vary over their career?)  \
\
For population data can you also mention the source \'97\'a0was it US Census for US? And what was used for World? I had to  go back and point out some geographies you missed population for and I wonder if you had to retrieve them from alternate sources. I don\'92t want to belabor this part / get lost in the weeds but to the extent possible we should use a consistent data source and be able to document tit. \
\
That list of API anomalies is great. \
\
You can remove all the content you listed in the parking lot here.\
\
\
\
*****\
Small UX thing \'97\'a0I think when I click on a reporter, look at their box, and then click \'93close,\'94 it should close the box AND clear their name from the searcher so I immediately see the full list again (albeit, ideally, at the position in the list I was looking at when I clicked them, not all the way back up the top). Is that possible? \
\
The state \'93sub-geography\'94 tags are working ok \'97\'a0I was wondering if they clutter that page too much but I think it\'92s all right \'97\'a0 Which has me thinking we could do it for the World too? But I would be even more concerned about countries importing tags that are their regional neighbors and not internal geographies. How confident are you that you could handle that?\
\
The main task we need to settle is how to reform the ABOUT page. We need a more inviting landing page, and then we need to organize all the disclaimers better so they aren\'92t so overwhelming, and probably  put them in a separate tab (maybe we call that \'93ABOUT\'94 whereas the landing page is\'85 HOME?\
\
I\'92m thinking the landing (whatever we call it) could give a BRIEF description of what the website does, and feature some exciting findings. Relatively brief page, an invitation to get to the other tabs. Should probably include the basic:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
This dashboard draws on every article published in\'a0The New York Times\'a0from January 2000 to the present, retrieved through the\'a0NYT Archive API and updated monthly. Errors in the API or in the function of the website could yield spurious conclusions, so users should independently verify any findings.\
\
Then for the ABOUT page I would generally like to make it more readable. The likely means more bullets/shorter sections, and more plain language explanations. (Instead of Article Count, Counting articles, etcetera.) In some cases it would probably make sense to have tables or lists (like we do for section names).\
\
I\'92m  trying to think about how to organize it better.\
\
We offer some observations which are more methodology (how we did it) and some that are more caveats (how it is still messed up). Those probably make sense to mingle, as we do now, but maybe should at least be separate paragraphs. And it might make sense to have a section in one place with all the API Anomalies (be it problems with movies section, loss of Athetic, etc etc). \
\
There is a certain directionality of explanation we could offer, from article to author to section to geography (small to big) or vice versa). \
\
I generally hate an \'93Other notes\'94 section which then has a hodgepodge of everything in it\'85 I\'92d rather get the categories right so everything has a home.\
\
There are a few notes in there we probably DON\'92T NEED anymore (like the Krguman bullet \'97\'a0can be mentioned in the section on blogs.  We don\'92t need to explain that NY and NJ are in New York Section, now \'97\'a0we\'92ve made that functionality clear in the state section. However we CAN mention that some New York articles that were untagged are not included in the count. \
\
Can you propose a way to reorganize that text, without doing it yet? I don\'92t want you to permanently delete anything that is already in there either \'97\'a0anything we want to remove should be put in a PARKING LOT section at the end.\
\
\
In the Compare sections chart, I don\'92t like how cluttered the legend gets when we have avg + median words checked and multiple states, all of which get two entries (one for avg, one for median). But not quite sure how to solve.\
\
\
Add geographic subtags to countries?\
What share of words by top 100/year - What would line chart of them look like for last 10 years \
Add gender to bylines to guess sections balance?\
\
\
\
\
\
\
****\
\uc0\u65279 \
\uc0\u65279 Prettier landing page.\
\
Clean up the caveats and move to a less high profile place.\
Feature key findings ?\
\
Change sections to have histogram chart + Countries and states charts?\
\
Work on efficiency of load\
\
 Experiment w headline frequency by year? Maybe a toggle? For lower frequency word? But it renders the partitioning more imprecise\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \CocoaLigature0 \
Let\'92s think about building a tab just for obits with name, age, gender, and profession to start. I\'92m curious who they are profiling (and who they are missing).\
\
So there are just 190 corrections to scrape? I do think we will want to do that, whether it\'92s now or later, and then once we know what is inside we may want to do it for years going back to 2000, so long as can digest and file that info in a useful format for pursuing further analysis.s\
\
And yes profile the slowness of that histogram in the po-up first. I have a feeling it is because you are loading a huge number of articles for each section, relative to a reporter, but I don\'92t know? Honestly, I liked the concept of having the same tool there as we had used for reporters, but it\'92s not essential if it is a heavy data lift, and I would prefer to have the word distribution over the years as I already outline to you (assuming it is visually legible). \
\
\
\
\
\
I am noticing that the charts on the obituaries chart doesn\'92t seem to wrap on desktop when I narrow the window live, only when I refresh it. That\'92s not a terrible thing but is it possible for them to re-size to the margin live, or does that add some complications of its own?\
}